The poem "An Irish Airman Foresees His Death" by W.B. Yeats explores anomalies in the airman's motivation, personalising and enhancing the troops' sense of uniqueness while also challenging human experiences. Yeats emphasises what the airman is not motivated by using repeated anaphora, using the phrase "nor" repeatedly throughout the poem. These ideas contradict the status quo since the airman seems fine with his fate. The airman's persona, a soldier who is not bothered by who wins the war, is one way in which these anomalies show a paradoxical emotion toward the poem's ideas. The poem dives into the complexity of human experiences by employing paradoxical thinking in order to explain the notion of individuality and motivation.

When I first read the poem, I noticed how unattached the soldier seemed to be to his surroundings. His unique way of thinking made me rethink how I viewed people's motivations by differentiating between both internal and external drive. Because the airman is motivated mostly by internal impulses rather than by outside influences that can affect his motivation, I thought he came off as more romantic, the kind that would write a poem. through this I was sympathised for the airman, since I can see that he has changed his perspective from fighting to accepting his ultimate fate because he is missing his chance to battle. Altogether, the poem by Y.B. Yeats has challenged my assumptions about where inspiration originates and how it could deviate from social norms, making me reevaluate how I interpret the human experience and inspired me to view the world in new ways.
