---
dg-publish: true
---

# English
#english
How does the representation of power in _The crucible_ shape your understanding of the human condition?

## Trial sample 2021 (intro):

A desire for power is a primal motivation found within the human condition as it is a driving force for what we want to achieve. However, seeking power over other humans is destructive and leads to the downfall of the collective community. Arthur Miller's _The Crucible_ conveys this, through different representations of power in the form of a historical allegory to reveal the innate human motivations in Salem 1692, and his own context of the Red Scare. Miller's exploration of the human experience of reputation, injustice and transgression and redemption reveals the parallel of motivation through power in both contexts to elicit a personal reflection of the human condition.

## Trial sample (other):
How does the representation of power in _The Crucible_ shape your understanding of the human condition?

The multifaceted play _The Crucible_ (1953) by Arthur Miller represents the experience of desiring power through showing the devastating impacts it has on individual's morality, whereby shaping one's experience of the human condition. Through the historic tragedy, set in 1500s Salem Witch Trials, Miller allegorically illustrates and challenges the paradoxical and unjust nature of the Red Scare of 1950s McCarthyism. He achieves this through articulating the collective consequences of a motivation for power, the consequence of power being exerted on others forcing them to obsess over their reputation. It is also seen in the motivation to regain power over personal enslavement to one's transgressions through achieving redemption. Through exploring these human experiences, Miller comments on the consequences of power on the human condition, allowing the audience to better understand the world.

Science and progress are caught up with rationality and reason during the crucible where Reverend Hale says "Here is all the invisible world, caught, defined, and calculated"
The idea of binary symbolism is used more where Abigail is talking to john about his heat (passion) for her, and his cold heart for his own wife