---
tags:
  - english
  - software
  - chemistry
---
SDD assessment:
#sdd #assignment
- Design elements (glossary):
	- Ergonomics: the study of the relationship between human workers and their work environment
	- User support, including help screens and other forms of user training and assistance, is another area of ergonomic software design that requires consideration
	- User Interface: the screen designs and connections between screens that allow the user to communicate with software

- Setting standards and stick to them. **Set *design standards* based on industry standards** and then develop **extra standards specific to your application and user's needs**. Most operating system developers have sets of design standards; these standards will often define much of the design.
- **Explain the rules**. Develop a simple set of rules that apply to your **entire application**. In this way, you will need to explain your rules only once. This makes more sense than explaining the details of how to use each individual feature of your application.
- Use interface elements correctly. Know when to use screen elements and how to use them correctly. For example, **command buttons, check boxes, radio buttons, list boxes, text boxes, menus**, etc. Follow ***recognized standards*** for each of these elements. Never alter the operation of standard screen elements to perform unexpected functions.
- **Use colour appropriately.** Colour should be used sparingly. Colour is viewed differently by individuals, what looks pleasing to you may be abhorrent to others. **Don’t override a user’s system settings**, they chose them and your application should not override their choices. This ensures **consistency** between applications. Ensure you maintain sufficient contrast between text and backgrounds.
- Use fonts appropriately. The use of fancy fonts can decrease usability considerably. Use fonts that are easy to read. Don’t override system settings for standard fonts. More than three fonts on a single screen are too much. Use fonts consistently, there should be a reason for font changes and the reason should be immediately and consistently clear. Remember you are using a different font every time you change the size, style, typeface or colour.
- **Alignment of data entry elements**. Text boxes should be left justified with their associated labels also left justified. For columns of data, **right justify integer, align decimals to the decimal points** and **left justify text**.


For [presentation](obsidian://open?vault=Lachlan%20Drive&file=Software%2FPresentation)
Design standards based on industry standards:
- first thing
- second thing
- third (?)
Extra standards specific to your application and users needs.

Set of rules that apply to your entire application
- Don't exit menu $x$ until you've done $y$ 

Visuals:
- consistency in fonts
- consistency in colours

If something is irrelevant, mention that it is irrelevant


What are key functionalities of a program?

Design specifications

|**Developers perspective**|**User's perspective**|
|---|---|
|Consideration of:|Consideration of|
|Data types ||

**don't override a users system settings**

# Chemistry
#chemistry 
precipitates: solids formed in a reaction (normally between two aqueous compounds/molecules)
Solubility 
Group 1 elements are all soluble
Soluble (dissolving salts): Dissolves, solution
Insoluble: precipitate, solid

#solubility 

|Solubility Rules|Exception|
|:---|---:|
|All nitrates are soluble|None|
|All chlorides are soluble|Lead, Silver|
|All Iodides are soluble|Copper, Lead, Silver|
|All Sulfates are soluble|Barium, Lead|
|All carbonates are soluble|$K^+$, Magnesium, Silver|
|All hydroxides are soluble|$K^+$, Iron, Zinc, Magnesium|

SNAAP rule (anions and cations never forming precipitates):
- Sodium ($Na^+$)
- Nitrate (NO$_3^{-1}$)
- Ammonium (NH$_4^{+1}$)
- Acetate (CH$_3$COO$^{-1}$)
- Potassium (K$^{+1}$)
Remember silver chloride (AgCl), and lead chloride (PbCl$_2$). Then test for BaSO$_4$(barium sulphate). 
$2AgNO_3+CuCl_2=Cu(NO_3)_{2(aq)}+2AgCl_{(aq)}$
Since year 11, expected to know:

Nitrate (NO$_3^{-1}$)
Carbonate (CO$_3^{-2}$)
Hydroxide (OH$^{-1}$)
Sulphate (SO$_4^{-2}$)
Ammonium (NH$_4^{+1}$)
Phosphate (PO$_4^{-3}$)

# Maths
#mathematics #maths 
Brain dump:
$g(x)=a^{f(x)}$
$g'(x)=ln_a*f'(x)*a^{f(x)}$
trig:
To graph, use caps
$f(x)=asin(b(x+c))+d$
C: Centre ($d$)
A: Amplitude ($a$)
P: Period ($\frac{2π}{b}$ if sin/cos, $\frac{π}{b}$ if tan)
S: shift ($c$)

Solving trig eqns:
$y=sin(x)$
RAA: related acute angle, $sin^-1(|y|)$ - then find quadrants using ASTC (all positive, sin positive, cos positive, tan positive)
Simplify equations initially before working on 



Finding asymptotes:
Denominator = 0, vertical asymptotes at value of x to equal zero

horizontal:
$f(x)=\frac{2^x+1}{2^x-1}$
as $x$⇒-∞, $2^x+1$ --> 1 & $2^x-1$ -> -1
horizontal:
$f(x)=\frac{\sqrt{16x^2-8}}{2x-5}$
Divide throughout by 1/x
=$\frac{\sqrt{(16x^2-8)*\frac{1^2}{x^2}}}{2-\frac{5}{x}}$
=$\frac{\sqrt{16-0}}{2-0}$
=$\frac{4}{2}$
=2
∴horizontal asymptote at y=2 for positive values of x

Vertical:
$f(x)=\frac{x}{x^2-4}$
= $\frac{x}{(x+2)(x-2)}$
∴asymptotes at x=±2, as denominator ≠ 0
DISREGARD vertical:
divide by the highest power in denominator
$f(x)=\frac{x}{x^2-4}$
$÷x^2$
=$\frac{\frac{x}{x^2}}{\frac{x^2}{x^2}-\frac{4}{x^2}}$
=$\frac{\frac{1}{x}}{1-\frac{4}{x^2}}$
as $x$ becomes bigger, 1/x becomes smaller. Same with $4/x^2$
apply a limit as x approaches 0:
= $\lim_{x \to ±∞}$ , $\frac{1}{x} \rightarrow 0$
= $\frac{0}{1-0}$
=$0$
Whenever there is a power on the bottom of the fraction larger than the top, doing the above process will always result in 0

# English
#english #crucible
The crucible essentials:
- Play written by Arthur Miller in 1953 in the height of the cold war and [mccarthyism](Glossary#^mccarthyism)
- In the play, Miller explores the tragic fall of John Proctor, a real-life person who refused to confess to accusations of witchcraft during the Salem witch trials
- Miller gives to this historical person a fictional affair with Abigail Williams.
- Abigail Williams is also a historical figure who was one of the group of girls who accused people in the town of practising witchcraft
- In the play, Miller increases the age of Abigail and decreases the age of Proctor, and invents a fictional adulterous affair between them
- The tragedy of the play is personal and historical
- Proctor is a tragic figure in part because he is caught up in historical events that are completely outside his control. It seems that he is doomed by fate to suffer
- However, Miller also explores t