---
tags:
  - english
  - crucible
  - maths
  - mathematics
---
# Maths: Differentiating Logarithmically

Differentiate $y=x^x$
Take natural log of both sides: $\ln{y}=\ln{x^x}$
Use log law to take power out front: $\ln{y}=x\ln{x}$
Differentiate both sides: $\frac{y'}{y}=\frac{d}{dx}x\ln{x}$
= $\frac{y'}{y}=x\frac{1}{x}+\ln{x}$
Multiply by y to make y' the subject: $y'=y(x\frac{1}{x}+\ln{x})$
sub in the value for y: $y'=x^x(x\frac{1}{x}+\ln{x})$
Simplify: $y'=x^x+x^x\ln{x}$



# poem is [widower in the country by les murray](https://ninglun.wordpress.com/2006/12/25/les-murray-and-the-widower-2005/)



Cont. from [[Nov 08, 2023#Opening]]
### Opening
- PARRIS: there is a faction that is sword to drive me from my pulpit. Do you understand that?
- Motivation: Parris' daughter is sick or in shock at the start of the play. We are not shown the scene, but it appears that some of the girls were dancing and doing 'magic' in the forest.
- Notice how Parris is more concerned about the political power place than anything supernatural
	- author making point that the politicians leading the [McCarthyism](Glossary#^mccarthyism) are worried more about their own status & power, than actually finding communists
### Abigails Reputation
- Parris challenges Abigail about her reputation in the village. Notice how he uses symbols and metaphors
- "Your name in the town - *it is entirely white*, is it not?"
- The puritans in the play tend to speak in binaries. A **binary** is where something is on or off, black or white, good or evil. There are no grey areas.
	- Language technique: always using and speaking in binary. (symbols and metaphors are very one or the other sided, not three ways or more)
### Abigail and the Girls
- Abigail has power over the other girls and seeks to make them **conform** to her plan. The girls lose their **individual freedom** to maintain **unity** in their false story.
- Notice the use of binary language again: "I will come to you in the black of some terrible night and I will bring a pointy reckoning that will shudder you" - Abigail
	- Binary language, "black"
- Motivation: fear, desire to conform
### Proctor's Fall
- We are introduced to Proctor as a **fallen** man. He has sinned with Abigail and almost destroyed his marriage.
- This is the central problem of the play that will eventually be resolved in Proctor's **redemption**. He will not find redemption through the church or Christianity.
	- Miller: "These people had no ritual for the washing away of sins"
	- Proctor finds redemption through coming to acceptance with his own sins
### Morality and Passion
- Proctor represents the **human struggle** between morality and passion. Should he follow his feelings and desires or should he restrain himself to do what is right?
- Miller represents this struggle through the ***binary symbolism*** of heat and cold
- Abigail refers to his wife as "cold" but says to Proctor "You are no wintry man"

### Puritan Binary
- Hale arrives to see if there is any witchcraft being practised. Like the puritans, he sees the world in *binary* terms. You are either with God or you are with the devil
- Miller comments: "Ours is a divided empire in which certain ideas and emotions and actions are of God, and their opposites are of Lucifer."
- Context: Miller sees this applying to the cold war
### Example of the Binary
- Rebecca: I go to God for you sir. Parris \[with trepidation - and resentment]: I hope you do not mean we go to Satan here! \[Slight pause.] Rebecca: I wish I knew. \[She goes out; they feel resentful of her note of moral superiority]
- Notice how there is no way in between. You are either going to God or you are going to satan
- The binary leads to people feeling **superior** and **inferior**
	- People are immediately led towards resentment and superior/inferiority complexes
### Proctor and Elizabeth
Foreshadowing
- The couple fight over the issue of guilt and judgement. Proctor feels guilty, but finds his wife to be too judgemental. This is the beginning of their *arc* in the play, moving from this harsh judgement to love and acceptance
- Proctor says: "Let you look sometimes for the *goodness* in me, and judge me not." Notice how this statement *parallels* the final line of the play
### Losing pretence
- Elizabeth is arrested and Proctor feels that he can no longer **pretend** to be the good Christian man. The act of pretending or faking is called **pretence**
- The title of the play is symbolic of what is less valuable being burned away to reveal what is pure and good
	- Putting something through an intense test (irl heat), burning away the impurities until what's left is pure
- "We are what we always were in Salem." "we are only what we always were, but naked now"
	- Proctor threw away his reputation, and became honest to the village
### Paradox, not Binary
- Proctor recognises that the binary way of thinking is wrong. He uses #imagery to represent the paradox of human struggle between good and evil. **Paradox** is the opposite of binary thinking
- "Now Hell and Heaven grapple on our backs, and all our old pretence is ripped away." Humans are paradoxical, constantly wrestling with Heaven and Hell.
### Freedom or control
- given that humans are **paradoxical**, what should society to about good and evil?
- Miller is not a **relativist** (person who believes there is no absolute good or evil). He represents good and evil clearly in the play
- He disagrees with the Puritan approach of trying to **dominate** or **control** people to make them good. He also challenges their confidence that they always know what is good

# Chemistry
Cont'd from [[Nov 08, 2023#^f39489]]
Potassium chloride + silver nitrate
Potassium iodide + lead nitrate
Sodium sulfate and barium nitrate
Solubility products:
Lead (II) chloride (K$_{sp}$ = $1.7\times{10^{-5}}$): 
PbCl$_2$ <-> Pb$^{+2}$ + 2Cl$^{-1}$
K$_{sp}$ = \[Pb$^{+2}$]\[Cl$^{-1}$]$^2$
As they both started the same, sub letters in for $x$
K$_{sp}$ = \[$x$]\[$2x$]$^2$
Cl becomes 2x, as its in a 2:1 ratio with Pb
Expand: K$_{sp}$ = $4x^3$
$x=\sqrt[3]{\frac{Ksp}{4}}$
